---
layout: post
title:  "DataGals"
date:   2017-12-01 12:13:00
categories: datagals hpe microfocus
summary: DataGals group
---

Since I joined Vertica in 2015, I have served on the steering committee of DataGals,
first as a member and then as Co-Chair. DataGals is the Hewlett Packard Enterprise group
for Women in Technical Career Paths. Currently Vertica and Datagals belong to Microfocus
which acquired HPE Software. You can read more [here].

The group was founded in 2013 by Shilpa Lawande, the former Vice President of the
Big Data Platform of HPE. It was inspired by Sheryl Sandberg’s book, Lean in and the
rising popularity of the lean in circles. The goal of the group was to provide an
informal environment where women can get together, find a source of great mentorship,
strong role models, and camaraderie.

Over the past four years the group has grown a lot and also has received a lot of support from
the three ccompanies we have transitioned through, which are HP and HPE.

HPE is committed to women in tech in general. In fact, in 2015, it was name one
of the top 100 best Working Mother's Companies (25th year on this list). Among
the organizations HPE works with is the Anita Bort Institute that champions
women technologists and the key roles they play in technical innovation.
The Anita Borg institute organizes Grace Hopper one of the biggest conference
for women in computer science. HPE also sponsors the Simmons Leadership Conference.
Vertica, which is part of the Big Data Platform group of HPE organizes its own
Big Data Conference as well. It happens every year and attracts our biggest customers.
Engineers share the latest features they have built in the big data platform and we also host a
Women in Technology breakfast.

You can read more about what we do and our [Year in Review].

[here]: https://www.microfocus.com/about/press-room/article/2017/micro-focus-completes-merger-with-hpe-software/
[Year in Review]: https://my.vertica.com/blog/datagals-year-review/
